---
layout: post
title: Sprint_Travel_May_2024
date: 2024-05-12 00:00:00-0000
description: A summary of the travel to the Spring 2024 sprint
tags: train travel canonical
categories: train-travel
related_posts: false
toc:
  sidebar: left
---

# Location

Madrid. I've not been there except for a flight transfer nearly 15 years before hand, so it'll be interesting to arrive by the (obviously) superior mode of transport

# Outbound May 11, 2024

Planned time: 23h 7m

Transfers: 6

Countries: 3 (UK, FR, ES)

Distance: 2253Km

Most looked forward to train: Iryo Barcelona to Madrid

## Chichester
Departure – 23:33<br>Arrival Three bridges – 00:35
Departure Three Bridges – 00:40<br>Arrival St. Pacras – 01:30

Fairly standard at this point, though being on one of the last trains is certainly new.
I don't actually remember what train I took from TBD to STP, I just jumped on a thameslink as it rolled in. I had been planning on a 2am connection, but luckily the other train was delayed enough to make it.

I did manage to get a great night shot at blackfriars though, so no complaints!

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_london.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>

## St. Pancras
Departure – 08:01<br>Arrival Gare du Nord – 11:18

The earliest eurostar service I've ever been on, makes a change to get the breakfast meal!
The pastry was delicious, but I do wish they'd served just a little more...

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_eurostar_nose.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_eurostar_meal.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>

## Gare de Lyon
Departure – 12:26<br>Arrival Lyon Part-Dieu – 14:22

It was a bit of a rush (common theme this journey), and my first time on the RER. It was an... experience. The Ougio service I was on was very comfortable, and another double decker train is always great! good view leaving Gare de Lyon too.

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_tgv.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_tgv_view.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>

## Lyon Part-Dieu
Departure – 14:32<br>Arrival Barcelona Sants – 19:34

With the previous train running late, this was easily my closest ever transfer, just five minutes to run down into the subway, across four platforms, and back up again to meet my onward connection. Probably should've added a little more than 10 minutes into my transfer planning, but the later connections to madrid didn't quite allow it.

Had to take the train pics at Barcelona (for obvious reasons). I loved the views from the cafe car as we passed along the mediteranean. Easily my favourite part of the entire journey.

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_renfe.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_renfe_nose.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>

## Barcelon Sants
Departure – 19:55<br>Arrival Madrid Atocha – 22:40

This journey was amazing! The food was delicious and I *think* this might have set a new personal high speed record at 320km/h (not that I got a photo of it, what do you think I am, a professional)

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_trenitalia_nose.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_trenitalia_speed.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_trenitalia_nose.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sprint2405/outbound_madrid_atocha.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>

# Inbound <time>

Planned time: 

Transfers: 

Countries: 3 (ES, FR, UK)

Distance: 2253Km

Most looked forward to train: TGV Barcelona to Gare de Lyon

## Gare du Nord
Departure – 19:11<br>Arrival St. Pancras – 20:30

# Rating

Trains: 

Stations: 

Destination: 